>> Will Sentance: We've achieved our goal,
though, or have we?
We've achieved our basic goal that we've
bundled up our functions that can be
used on the user data in one user object,
user1, user2, user.
Who can see, though that while this
approach fundamentally solves our basic
problem of is my functionality gonna be
available on my data, when I need it.
Wherever I pass that user2 object,
the functionality increment
is available on it.
Wherever I pass a user1, by the way,
there could be 1,000 user objects.
User 400, user 1,000,
there could be 1,000 functions.
I can know safely in this model that
if I do user2002.displayavatar.
Whatever of the hundreds of
function that use in this function,
I'll know, don't worry, it will be there.
So, I have achieved that goal which
we said is a fundamental goal.
Anyone see any issue with this approach?
Yeah, Dave.
>> Dave: If you're gonna update
the functionality, you have to go and-
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, that's a good one,
that's a really good one.
So maintenance of this is a bit of a pain,
right?
Because I can't go adding to all my
user objects because I've already
generated them, and they were created
inside of this individual function.
Andrew, what do you see as a problem?
>> Andrew: If you have thousands of users,
you have to have different
variable names for everyone?
>> Will Sentance: Okay, that's sort
of inherent cuz you're appointed
different labels.
Now can store them in an array or
something like that, but
ultimately they're all gonna have
their own space for their own data.
What do you think, Griffin?
>> Griffin: Any functions that then would
call those user functions its sends it
user1, it's not generic enough just
to be able to call it end user.
You'd have to make it function for
each user.
>> Will Sentance: You're getting so
close there, right?
So you're saying something like this
increment function is a new version for
every single.
But the problem with that is not my
genericness, the problem with that is
suppose I have 1000 functions that
are being declared inside of what I call
user creator, get attached to the new
user and then get stored in user1.
This is another brand new user object
with all those functions again.
All my data is unique in each user, but
this functionality is increment function
here, so doesn't need to be a brand
new version versus this one.
What about over 1,000 functions each
one with 100 licence code in them and
then a 1,000 users,
I'm getting a 1000 times by 100 times
1,000 in the lines of code just
to describe the same functions.
If I have a 1000 functions I wanna
be able to use on my users and
I copy them across every single
user that's filling in memory.
That's saying declare this function, store
in the user, this is an actual copy of
the function increment that's
attached to the user object.
If there's a 1000 of those functions,
and then on here,
an actual brand new copy of that
function increment is actually user1.
Griffin, is that gonna
be good on my memory?
That is absolutely unusable.
This approach may be simple, it's simple,
but it has a fundamental problem.
Each time we create a new user,
we make space in our computers memory for
all our data.
And functions, data no problem,
yeah like name, will, score,
three I've got a brand new space in
memory for name, will, score, three.
Name, team, score, five.
But my functions they are the same
on every single object user1,
user2, user400, user1000.
Why are they making copies?
Our functions just copied,
is there a better way?
We're gonna see, thank goodness,
there is a better way in JavaScript.
But this at least is a very intuitive,
straightforward in some essence way.
So, what is the better way?
>> multiple: Classes.
>> Student: Inheritance?
>> Will Sentance: Inheritance, everyone's
shouting out words from the land of OP.
Probably one of those words
are gonna be correct, maybe.
One of those words are gonna be correct,
but how are they working.
What we gonna do today is under
the hood how they're working.
I wanna stress to all of you and online,
when I sit down with other senior
engineers and say what questions do you
ask senior developers in interview?
One of the classic questions and
there's a great core answer saying out,
how can I spot a senior developer.
I don't think it's necessarily a great way
to spot a senior JavaScript developer but
the answer, the top voted answers is ask
them to rebuild how the new keywords and
how classes which is one of the words
shouted out are actually working.
We're gonna to see under the hood
how those are actually working.
It is a classic senior developer for
JavaScript interview question.
We're gonna go through it, we're gonna
build up the different ways of achieving
this fundamental goal of calling our
functionality immediately on our data.
But not being incredibly inefficient
with space like we have been here.
That's our tension,
we're gonna resolve it today, all right.
So at this point,
we're gonna get into pairs,
after the pairing we're
gonna see how this works.
What is our better way of achieving this,
but
it lies on the other side of the pairing.
For now folk, I think stay in
the same page we're in, we don't need
to go through these go to csbin.io/oop
we'll get started on pairing on oop and
we'll start to see afterwards,
how we can do it better.
Everybody, to your pairs.